Hello middle school educators!
This short video provides a brief
introduction to culturally responsive
pedagogy.
I want to start by acknowledging something
that's probably on your mind
your plates, our full lesson planning,
marketing meetings,
parent emails, assessments.
It can be overwhelming if culturally
responsive pedagogy is new to you.
You may be thinking, is this really one
more thing I have to do?
But here's the truth.
Culturally responsive teaching
isn't another thing on your plate.
It is the plate.
It's the foundation
that makes everything else more
meaningful, more effective,
and ultimately more rewarding.
Before we go
any further, let's define what we mean
by culture
and culturally responsive pedagogy.
Culture is more than ethnicity
or language.
It's the values, traditions,
communication styles,
and lived experiences that shape
how each student sees the world.
It's what we do and why we do it.
Our ways of knowing and being influenced.
How we interpret everything.
Culturally responsive
pedagogy is not a strategy
or a set of strategies
to add to your practice.
It is a way of teaching a mindset
that underpins everything you do.
One of the preeminent scholars
in this area, Gloria Latson
Billings, defines culturally responsive
teaching as a pedagogical approach
that centers students cultural backgrounds
and experiences to promote
academic success, cultural competence,
and critical consciousness.
This applies to every student
and teacher in the room.
Teachers
working to become culturally responsive
recognize
their own cultural ways of being, as well
as their own biases, so that they can plan
for inclusive practices
that work for who is in the room.
At its heart,
culturally responsive teaching
is focused on instructional practices
that create environments where students
feel seen, heard, and valued
in a way that enhances their engagement
and success.
You may wonder, do I need this?
My classroom isn't diverse,
but culturally responsive
teaching is an approach
to teaching that benefits everyone.
It's not just about race or ethnicity.
Every student has a culture, a way
of seeing and experiencing the world.
And when we take time
to understand their perspectives,
we make learning relevant for all of them.
Culturally responsive teaching
isn't changing what you teach.
It's changing how you connect it to the
lives and experiences of your students.
Now, we know that here in New Brunswick
we have diverse classrooms,
sometimes with upwards of 10
or 15 home cultures connected.
You might wonder how you can learn about
and connect with all of the cultures
in your class.
And you're right.
You can't be an expert on
every background, but that's not the goal.
The goal is to be curious,
to create a space
where students feel safe
sharing their perspectives.
You don't have to have all the answers.
You just have to be open
to learning alongside your students.
Incorporate books, videos, and guest
speakers that reflect different cultures.
In math, you might explore number systems
from different parts of the world. In
science, you might start by highlighting
contributions from diverse scientists.
And finally, some of you may be thinking,
I've had no training.
I don't even know where to start, and
that is a fair and very relevant concern.
I would offer you this. Start small.
Build on what you might already be doing,
like greeting your students by name.
Learning
how to pronounce those names correctly.
Bringing in different voices
and perspectives in your examples.
Asking questions.
Listening using a variety of activities.
Opening up some new ways
to connect with families
and showing your students
that their stories matter.
Why is this so important?
Culturally and linguistically diverse
students have trouble remembering
and learning in classrooms
where they are minoritized
and not valued
for their unique experiences.
Feeling unsafe, unseen, or misunderstood
leads to amygdala hijacks,
wherein the brain produces cortisol
and is unable to learn.
Stereotype threat is another concern.
This is the experience of anxiety
or stress that an individual feels
when they feel they are at risk of
confirming a stereotype about their group.
This can lead to impaired performance
even if the individual knows
the stereotype is not true.
For example, a female student
might perform worse on a math test
if she is reminded of the stereotype
that women are not as good at math.
On the other hand,
when students feel affirmed, trusted,
and validated as who they are,
the teacher can become the warm demander
that students need.
And so then they can achieve more
in culturally inclusive environments.
Learners know that they can feel proud
of who they are, as they know
that their unique identity is respected
and honored.
I know that this is what we want
for all of our students,
but it takes intention to make it happen.
Culturally responsive teaching isn't about
adding another task to your to do list.
It's about transforming
the way you connect with your students.
Thank you for the work you do. It matters.